# Executive Summary
Lab 4 explores operating systems even further, and we start to practice with the command line of our operating system. Additional software will also be examined including: interactive programming environment, graphics and diagramming. Our study of python will also be continued.
### Python IDLE
The interactive shell differs from the file editor as the shell runs python instructions as soon as you hit RETURN, and it also has the >>> prompt. The file editor allows you to save those instructions in a file and run a program. It does not have the >>> prompt.
### Code Examples
A variable is a storage space where you can store a single value that can be used in a future program. The author uses the terms spam, bacon, and egss to name a variable after the Monty Python "spam" sketch. An assingment statement is the code you write to store the value in a variable (spam = 42). A function is a named section of a program that performs a specific task (print). The three data types include integers, strings, and floating-point units. Integers are numbers without a decimal place while floating-point units are essentially decimals. Strings are data represented by text instead of numbers.
### Graphics
A raster image is a small image that is made up of millions of tiny pixels, and is blurry when enlarged. Vector images differ from raster as they don't lose quality when enlarged (better for a professional environment). Lossy and lossless compression both have their pros and cons. Lossy compression reduces the file size which will take up less storage, but the quality is reduced. Lossless retains all data from the original file, but it is larger in size than lossy. Gif: Graphics Interchange Format, allows for animated images and supports 256 distinct RGB colors. JPEG: Joint Photographic Experts Group, uses lossy compression to create smaller file sizes. Allows the designer to tune the compression to his/her need, which results in better image quality with reduced file size. PNG: Portable Network Graphics, uses lossless compression and was established to replace the Gif format. Supports a number of transparency options, including alpha channel transparency.
### File Properties
My logo isn't and doesn't represent anything special, I just wanted to see if I could put a semi-decent design together with the shapes given. It consists of 9 layers, is 2.84, and opens with Firefox, Chrome, and Safari. I think Chrome is appropriate enough as it's the only internet browser I use on my laptop.
# Conclusion
In sum, I explored the different aspects of Python IDLE today (interactive shell and file editor) and I wrote my very first program. I became familiar with some primary programming functions and learned the differences between data types, picture formats, etc. I also designed and downloaded a logo which will be used down the line in future modules.
