# Executive Summary
Lab 5 consists of networking and cybersecurity. We will look at different approaches and technologies that help reduce threats to security and identify the different networking components along with the role of the NSA in networking security. We will also be taking a look at lucidchart as a way to create simple and clear charts.
### Lucidchart
My exeperience with Lucidchart was pretty simple. I understood the format of the system pretty well even though it was my first time, and the only really challenging part was finding out the code required for the program.
### Introduction to Networking
A packet is the fundamental unit of data transmitted over the internet. These units travel through a network that connects multiple devices together and filters packets based on their destination called a packet-switch. The destination of the packet is represented by an IP address, or a specific number that is unique to a computer. Everyone has one. IP addresses are stored in a directory called the "DNS" or "domain name system," and can be pulled out of that system for proper routing. Protocol is the ability for devices to exchange information back and forth across a network via a set of rules.
##### Network Hardware
Switches are better options than hubs as they can pass along trafic (or data) at higher rates resulting in improved efficiency. It is more intelligent than a hub and can join mulitiple computers within one LAN. Routers have more benefits than both a hub and a swtich, however. While switches work to connect multiple computers within one network, routers work to connect multiple networks together. Routers can perform a variety of intelligent tasks across many networks while the other two deal with connections within a single network.
##### Network Topologies
Single point of failure occurs when a central wiring point like a switch or hub fails, resulting in the failure of attached devices. Star and ring topology deal with this issue. Wireless mesh topology consists of many connected routers intertwined over many networks (i.e the internet). Infrastructure topology (IT) utilizes both wired and wireless topologies. Similar to the star topology, IT has multiple devices connected to a central wiring point, which is also connected to a wireless access point that allows for laptops, smartphones, etc. to be connected to the network. I think the wireless mesh is superior because you can just keep adding more routers to ensure that there is no failure in the system.
##### NSA/CSS
The NSA is committed to serving the public with the preservation and maintanence of online integrity via cryptology, cybersecurity, and computer network operations. They aim to provide the public with transparency and respect all while taking account of their own actions in the process. The NSA uses its technological resources to find ways to prevent ever-evolving cybersecurity threats.
### Cybersecurity and Encryption
#### Information Systems Security 
Obviously if I were an Amazon.com online chat employee I wouldn't release or show any personal information given to me by a customer (confidentiality). I would need to be very transparent with the customer and tell the objective truth as it is while also making sure that their data is in safe hands (integrity). Finally, the Amazon servers would need to be maintained in order for customers to have access at a minute's notice (availability). 3 daily tasks that require authentication are: withdrawing/depositing money, logging on to facebook, and renewing your passport. The first task can make the swtich to multi-factor authentication by requiring a debit/credit card along with a federal ID. The second can be switched by requiring a username/password and a personal question like "what was your mother's maiden name?" Lastly, the third task can be swtiched by asking for your ID and social security number. The ACL and RBAC are both types of access control models. The ACL is a list of users who are designated to functions like "read" or "write" and only the users with those capabilities are allowed to perform those functions. The RBAC stands as an improvement as it involves users who are assigned to different roles which are predetermined and assigned the access. Public key encryption uses a public key, a private key, and a ciphertext. The public key is encrypted via the ciphertext and then sent to the private key which then decodes the coded data or information. As a result from using two keys, there are nearly an infinite amount possibilities for keys which makes this practice extremely secure.
#### Cryptography
The Caesar Cipher works as follows: Typing a message in the cipher and turning the wheel once to the right will take each letter in the message and move it down a letter in the alphabet. For example, if I said "hello" and moved the cipher to the right once, the message would read "ifmmp." The Frequency Fingerprint Cipher works as follows: when you type a letter in the message box, a frequency bar that is in correlation with that letter will increase. It gets higher if the letter is repeated, and spelling out a whole message would leave a sort of oscillating frequency depending on the letters used. I don't think it would be different for other languages, they would just have to replace our alphabet with theirs. A polyalphabetic cipher utilizes substitution of letters in different alphabetic rows to encrypt messages. When using this cipher, the messanger shifts the information multiple times, and it can only be decoded by a secret word that is shared between the parties by subtraction.
#### Brute-Force
A brute-force attack attempts to try every possible decryption key for a cipher until it is successful (similar to trial and error). Considering its effectiveness, Caesar ciphers really shouldn't be used anymore to encrypt messages. Kerckhoffs’s principle states that a cipher should still be secure even if everyone knows how the cipher works and someone else has the ciphertext. If everyone knows how the cipher works and someone has the ciphertext in hand, the cipher is no longer secure. This principle makes no sense to me.
