# Executive Summary
The goal of Lab 3 is to get ourselves familiar with different types of software while also practicing with programming languages like Python. The application of virtualization is also a topic that will be covered. We will also be exploring different career options in the IT field along with co-ops, internships, etc.
## Software
Software, created by programming, is designed to give instructions to the surrounding hardware. It can be split into two categories: operating systems software and application software. Operating systems (Windows, IOS) manage the user-interface components and hardware, while providing programmers a platform to write new applications. Application software (Microsoft Word, Itunes) allows the user to accomplish a goal or objective. Utility software (which is a subcategory of Application) allows the user to modify or fix your computer. An antivirus software is an example. ERP software (Enterprise Resource Planning) was designed to funnel an entire organization under one software application. A central database is established by said software which is then implemented throuhgout the organization. Companies like Microsoft and Oracle are examples of this. Virtualization creates a virtual computer system that allows for numerous applications and operating systems to be ran on a single server. This was designed as a result from companies previously using multiple servers, functioning at a fraction of their capacity, which then leads to high cost and inefficiency. Software called a "hypervisor" is used when multiple VM's (virtual machines) are operating on a single host. This allows for resources to be allocated to whichever VM as needed.
## Virtualization
Virtualization has a multitude of benefits. It reduces the operating costs of a computer system while increasing productivity. Downtime is either completely eliminated or at least somewhat minimized. Virtualization also allows for more efficient divvying of resources that are fundamentally imperative to a server. Software called a "hypervisor" is used when multiple VM's (virtual machines) are operating on a single host. This allows for resources to be allocated to whichever VM as needed. Virtualization differs from cloud computing as it is a technology that allows for virtually-created resources to be allocated among just a single server, while cloud computing is an evironment that allows for storage, networking, and software to be maintained over the internet (cloud). Virtualization can survive without cloud, but not the other way around. A network administrator could make the switch to cloud by designating all resources and systems to function at one specific area upon multiple units of hardware, which then could be managed by a third-party provider. Again, virtualization is needed for cloud computing to function, so it still technically would exist.
## Python
Pseudo-code is basically a description of what a code or algorithm must do. Regarding python, this term allows the user to focus on the completed code or program rather than working out what goes where. Compiled language is when programming language is altered to match the language that is spoken by a user's computer (binary). Python uses the opposite of this, interpreted language, which allows the user to run the programming language directly into the source code without having to compilate.  
## Career Exploration
Looking through the website I think I was most interested by the computer and information systems manager positions as that is somewhat relevant to my field. The job of this position is to ensure their organization's computer needs while maintaining hardware and software. They also look for ways to upgrade their computer systems.
#### College Central
I found many available internships and co-ops that are available in a 25-mile radius around my location. Companies offered positions regarding IT, marketing, finance, and graphic design
#### Certifications
CompTIA provides IT professionals with analytical skills such as: identifying vulnerabilities and threats to an organization, the configuration and use of threat-detecting tools, and the ability to protect applications and systems within an organization. Fields that use this range from cybersecurity to vulnerability analysts.
#### Certificates
On the website, I took a computer networking quiz to see if there are any opportunities that would fit my choice of work. Cybersecurity appeared as one of the results, and I'd say I'm semi-interested. The program would allow for me to recognize specific network threats and protect hardware, software, and data from attacks.
#### Co-ops/Internships
In order to be "co-op ready" one must participate in the co-op orientation process through tri-c. One must then upload their resume for final revisions and approval by a career coach through CCN. After, you should work with an Employer Relations Specialist to apply and interview for approved co-op placements. Co-ops are beneficial as they give you an actual look at something one might be interested in and provides them with experience, which is much needed this day in age.
#### Industry Associations/Student Organizations
IEEE is the world's largest professional association for the advancement of technology. With over 400,000 members, IEEE aims to advocate technological advancement through publications, conferences, professional and educational activities. Members include engineers, scientists, and technical professionals. Membership would be beneficial as this program would allow for collaboration and an interesting way to impact the technological world.
