# Executive Summary
In lab 6 we will be exploring protocols that support communication on the Internet as well as more programming methodologies. We will also be looking at how to create and format a web page utilizing HTML and CSS.
### Internet Architecture
Your web browser should be secure, because if it is not it may be vulnerable to attacks varying from intruders attempting to take control of your computer to spyware being installed without your knowledge. Java, the programming language, is executed by Java Virtual Machines (JVM) within a sort of "sandbox" where interaction with the rest of the system is limited. Various implementations of JVM, however, can led to vulnerabilities that allow bypasses to these restrictions.
#### Internet Protocol
An IP address is a unique number that is assigned to any device connected to the Internet. The number is specific to that unit, meaning no other device uses it. IPv4 was the original version o IP addresses in use, with it having the ability to generate about 4.3 billion unique addresses. It consisted of a string of 4 groups of varying numbers and letters, hence the 4 in the name. IPv6 differs from the previous version as it adds 2 more groups to the string. This led to more address combinations being generated which in turn allowed the population of the world, and then some, to have access to their own personal IP. ICANN is an organization that ensures security and proecudures on the Internet through the maintenance of many databases related to numerical and namespaces. They make sure that people have universal access to the DNS and are allowed access to the many valid addresses.
#### TCP/IP
TCP/IP or "Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol" is just the generalization of how data is sent and received through the various hardware of the Internet (adaptors, switches, routers). It was developed by the U.S Department of Defense as a way to connect government computer systems to each other via a global network. It was also placed in the public domain so that software could be developed based on the protocol. The client-server model applies to TCP/IP with the "Client" being the computer that initiates the procedure by requiring the address(s) of the "Server" it wants to connect to. The servers only job is to accept or reject incoming connections when initiated by the client. Layered protocol stacks are an important approach to networking as by using a single stack you are required to change the entire application if you wish for any changes to a protocol. This is different for layered stacks, where each layer has a specific function and interacts with the other levels both below and above it. Applications that run on the "application layer" consist of but are not limited to HTTP, SMTP, POP3.
#### Internet Security
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a protocol that is used to view web pages on the internet. Any information you input onto your device is transferred over the public internet in to the server that you want to access (Client-Server). However, that information is vulnerable as it is moved over the public internet in clear text that can be accessed by hackers or any malicious person. This is helped by HTTPS (Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol) which encrypts the data that is being retrieved by HTTP. By making the data impossible to read, information you input is protected and secure.
### Internet Programming
Tim Berners-Lee is the creator of the World Wide Web, which was invented in 1989. He established the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) as a way to create tools, guidelines, and software that would lead the Web to its full potential. The "Web of Devices" standard focuses on technology that enables users to access the Web at anytime, anywhere. This is important as mobile networks can open up new opportunities resulting in greater efficiency and organization.
#### HTML5 and CSS
I attempted to use the TextEdit application to code my web page but for some reason it didn't work, even when I did everything it said to do. Instead, I just used the editor that came with the HTML tutorial link. The Editor tutorial showed me the majority of the code I needed for the page, while CSS served as the color aspect.
#### HTML and XML
While HTML and XML both deal in the business of data, they differ from one another. XML is just information stored in tags, with its primary goal being to carry data. HTML focuses on how data looks and is displayed.
### Components of a URL
A URL begins with a scheme, which tells your browser what kind of address it is so it can connect correctly (https). The domain name is the part of the URL without the scheme included (www.amazon.com). Each segment of the domain name separated by periods is called a domain. The top level domain is the domain all the way to the right (.edu). A default page is loaded when you only input a domain name into a search bar. The default page helps you get to other pages (no file path provided). A parameter string is a string of characters after a path, beginning with a question mark. The characters make no sense to us, but they work as the result of a search. The anchor is also a part of the ending of a URL; it helps you reach a certain spot on a specific page. It works sort of like a bookmark.
