# Executive Summary
In lab 8, we look at some of the ethical and legal implications of information systems. We will also be describing various database models and practice querying a database with SQL.
### Data, Information, and Knowledge
#### Relational Knowledge
Data consists of raw pieces of information that is useless on their own, with information adding context to these bits. Knowledge, then, is the product of the consumption of information. The primary key in a customer and orders table is probably customer ID. The foreign key would then be the link between data in the customer and orders table. Two reasons why data types are so important are the fact that data type tells the database what functions can be performed with the data. The other reason to define data type is that it allows for the proper amount of space to be allocated to that data.
#### Big Data
The four V's of big data include volume, variety, veracity, and velocity. Volume represents the amount of data and is one of the main characteristics that makes data “big”. Variety defines different types of data and data resources. Velocity is the  characteristic that represents the motion of the data. Veracity can be termed as the trustworthiness of the data i.e. calculation of the noises, biases and abnormality in the data. Technology that has driven the need for big data include unstructured data like web pages, audio logs, and even twitter feeds.
### Structured Query Language 
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. The data in RDBMS in database objects called tables, consisting of rows and columns. The orders and shipping tables relate to each other as the shipping table must receive info from the order table to be able to tell where deliveries go. The order table is the primary key with the shipping table being the foregin key. 
#### SQL Injections
SQL injections are one of the most common web hacking techniques that can devestate your database. It is done via the input of malicious code into an SQL statement. You can however use SQL parameters as a way of keeping yourself safe from this type of code. The SQL engine checks each parameter to ensure that it is correct for its column and are treated literally, and not as part of the SQL to be executed.
### Ethical and Legal Implications
#### Code of Ethics
A code of ethics is essentially an outline of acceptable behaviors for a professional or social group. ACM created a code as a way to communicate common guidelines in a consistent and clear manner. The difference between a code of ethics and an AUP (acceptable use policies) is that for an AUP, a single user has to agree to terms while code involves the group as a whole agreeing to specific terms. Mcdonald's AUP or terms of service prevents you from taking legal action against them. You must be at least 13 years of age to use internet service at a Mcdonald's and you must not use the service behind the wheel. Also, Mcdonald's has the right to update or terminate the online service. https://www.mcdonalds.com/us/en-us/terms-and-conditions.html
#### Intellectual Property
WIPO's purpose is to inform businesses, governments, and society about the benefits of IP. Their job includes the preservation and protection of IP across borders, establish technical infrastructure to connect IP systems, and the building of programs so the use of IP can be available to all countries for an economic, social, and cultural purpose. Copyright is naturally acquired if you are the author of an original work. For a work that is used commercially, however, it is advised that you register for a copyright through the US Copyright Office. The benefit of registration includes having complete control over your work and preventing others from profiting off your creation. It would be important to copyright the svg image I created as someone else could use that image for profit, and I would receive nothing from it. Trademarking my svg image would prevent the consumer from confusing my product with another that possibly has a similar image.
#### Information Collection
COPPA requires parental consent to obtain information from anyone under the age of 13. FERPA deals with student education records, and the rights to those records are automatically given to the parents of the student until he/she reaches the age of 18, and then the rights are theirs. HIPPA deals with records related to health care, and gives full rights of medical records to the patient. Health care providers and others who maintain this info have to get specific permission to share it.
